Basically, this is how interactions will work:

Reaction will function as a number-line, range -100 to +100.

All negative values will attack the Player/party on sight.
The degree of negativity will determine the chance that the aggressor will fight with intent to kill the Player/party.

Example:  A Player attempts to steal from a shopkeep and gets caught, dropping Reaction to -10.
The shopkeeper will attack the player until either KO'd or dead, or until the Player is knocked into Incap.
At that point, there is a 10% chance the shopkeep will attempt to kill the Player, and a 90% chance he will leave him sitting and get guards to arrest the player.
However, if during combat, the Player causes a crippling injury, or otherwise brings the shopkeeper close to death, Reaction will further decrease,
causing a further liklihood that the shopkeeper will favor lethal action in the event the Player is kocked into Incap.

Positive values will be ranked by their overall quality, which can lead to changes in barter prices and interactions with NPCs.

</= 0 :  Hatred, see negative values
1 - 19:  Dislike - They don't like you, but they will still tolerate your presence
20 - 39:  Suspicious - They don't dislike you, but they don't really want to be seen with you or trust you
40 - 59  Neutral - This is basically the default 'could be better, could be worse' scenario
60 - 79:  Polite - This will generally lead to slight discounts in shops, increased interaction options
80 - 99:  Friendly - This will certainly lead to discounts in shops, increased interaction options, even quests otherwise unavailable without their trust
100:  Revered - Getting here means they trust you completely, and should any other attempt to attack you, they will gladly fight on your behalf

Initial Reaction will be calculated on several factors:
- The Player/Party's Average Charisma
- The Reputation of the Player/Party in that region
- Any Buffs/DeBuffs present (example, the spell/charm Good Impression will grant a +15 on top of Reaction while active)

On Reputation:

Reputation will vary based upon interactions and quests done by players/parties.
Example 1:  Being caught stealing will cause a -5 across a region.  Assault, -10.  Murder, -20.
Example 2:  Completing a quest that saves the region from a threat will see an increase proportional to the severity in the quest guideline.
	The more 

Unless dictated by faction or trait, initial reputation modifer should be 0 in all regions.
Reputation will also run on a number line from -100 to +100.



Additional Limitations to NPC interaction:
Intelligence

NPC interactions can be changed by the Player's Intelligence.
Some interactions (and even quests) will not be offerred if the Player's Intelligence stat is too high or too low.
Dialogue may be modified based upon Intelligence as well ("Dumb-Dumb-Speak," "Normal," "Knowledged")

Example 1:  An NPC requests the Player's help by asking him to activate the ignition switch on a machine.

Normal:		 	"It's the small, red lever on the far right."
Dumb-Dumb-Speak:	"RED LEVER, on RIGHT.  No, your OTHER right."
Knowledged:		"Could you toggle the ignition switch for me?" (he motions to the right)


Example 2:  An NPC who needs help from a scientist (requiring a minimum Science skill of 50 and Intelligence of 7 to initialize the quest).
Example 2 (subverted):  An NPC with a sign saying "DOWN WIT SIENS!" won't allow a player with Science Skill above 50, or Intelligence above 7 to interact with him.